Profiles Sync and Databricks Destination GA (#5905)
segmentio/segment-docs: src/unify/profiles-sync/profiles-sync-setup/databricks-profiles-sync.md

---
title: Databricks for Profiles Sync
plan: unify
---

With Databricks for Profiles Sync, you can use [Profiles Sync](/docs/unify/profiles-sync/overview/) to sync Segment profiles into your Databricks Lakehouse.
 

## Getting started

Before getting started with Databricks Profiles Sync, note the following prerequisites for setup.

- The target Databricks workspace must be Unity Catalog enabled. Segment doesn't support the Hive metastore. Visit the Databricks guide [enabling the Unity Catalog](https://docs.databricks.com/en/data-governance/unity-catalog/enable-workspaces.html){:target="_blank"} for more information. 
- Segment creates [managed tables](https://docs.databricks.com/en/data-governance/unity-catalog/create-tables.html#managed-tables){:target="_blank"} in the Unity catalog. 
- Segment supports only [OAuth (M2M)](https://docs.databricks.com/en/dev-tools/auth/oauth-m2m.html){:target="_blank"}  for authentication.

> #### Warehouse size and performance 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Warehouse size and performance 
```

> A SQL warehouse is required for compute. Segment recommends the following size:

Reviewer: Same as above - "settings" might also work, if characteristics doesn't encompass everything?

```suggestion
A SQL warehouse is required for compute. Segment recommends a warehouse with the the following characteristics:
```

  - **Size**: small
  - **Type** Serverless otherwise Pro
  - **Clusters**: Minimum of 2 - Maximum of 6

> success ""
> To improve the query performance of the Delta Lake, Segment recommends creating compact jobs per table using OPTIMIZE following [Databricks recommendations](https://docs.databricks.com/en/delta/optimize.html#){:target="_blank"}. 

> info ""

> > Segment recommends manually starting your SQL warehouse in advance. If the SQL warehouse isn't running, Segment attempts to start the SQL warehouse to validate the connection and may experience a timeout when you hit the **Test Connection** button during setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Segment recommends manually starting your SQL warehouse before setting up your Databricks destination. If the SQL warehouse isn't running, Segment attempts to start the SQL warehouse to validate the connection and may experience a timeout when you hit the **Test Connection** button during setup.
```

 
## Set up Databricks for Profiles Sync

1. From your Segment app, navigate to **Unify > Profiles Sync**.
2. Click **Add Warehouse**.
3. Select **Databricks** as your warehouse type.
4. Use the following steps to [connect your warehouse](#connect-your-databricks-warehouse).

## Connect your Databricks warehouse

> Use the five steps below to connect your Databricks warehouse. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the five steps below to connect to your Databricks warehouse. 
```
